Screen Plate Well 2009-09
=========================

This was developed in conjunction with the June 2007 release and updated
for the September 2009 release of the OME-XML Model.

The Screen Plate Well model is designed to support high content
screening. It is aimed at providing a flexible framework to organise the
images that result from such a screen and provide links to the external
systems that contain full information about the components and products
used. Throughout the model there are several External Identifier strings
that can be attached to support this.

The top level of the SPW model has two objects that exist side by side,
Screen and Plate. It is important to stress that plate is not a child of
screen, they are equals. This is necessary to cater for the fact that
while a screen can contain many plates, a plate can also be used in more
than one screen. This allows less common scenarios where, for example,
there are two screens against two different reagent sets but only one
set of control plates that are used in common.

Reagents are children of a Screen and as such are designed to be
referenced from each screen they are part of. It is worth covering the
exact meaning of a reagent within SPW. The storing of detailed
information about biological reagents is beyond the scope of the OME
model. There are several other system that are designed to handle this
type of information. What the Reagent element in SPW provides is useful
descriptions and an external reagent identifier that can be used to find
detailed information about the reagent in another system. A side effect
of this is that any change to an external reagent requires a new SPW
reagent. This could be a change of dilution, supplier, or lot-number.

Example
^^^^^^^

If you have two chemical reagents Monastrol and VX680 that I wish to
apply to samples in various concentrations. The Monastrol will be
applied at 100, 300, and 900 nM concentrations. The VX680 at 300, 900,
2700 nM concentrations. This requires a total of 6 reagents to be
defined in the OME file.

::

    <spw:Screen ...>
        ...
        <spw:Reagent ID="Reagent:001" Description="Monastrol at a 100nM concentration from XYZ Supplier" Name="Monastrol-100nM" ReagentIdentifier="R-XYZ-Mon-100-nm-00345"/>
        <spw:Reagent ID="Reagent:002" Description="Monastrol at a 300nM concentration from XYZ Supplier" Name="Monastrol-300nM" ReagentIdentifier="R-XYZ-Mon-300-nm-01245"/>
        <spw:Reagent ID="Reagent:003" Description="Monastrol at a 900nM concentration from XYZ Supplier" Name="Monastrol-900nM" ReagentIdentifier="R-XYZ-Mon-900-nm-00875"/>
        <spw:Reagent ID="Reagent:004" Description="VX680 at a 300nM concentration from XYZ Supplier" Name="VX680-300nM" ReagentIdentifier="R-XYZ-VX680-300-nm-00256"/>
        <spw:Reagent ID="Reagent:005" Description="VX680 at a 900nM concentration from XYZ Supplier" Name="VX680-900nM" ReagentIdentifier="R-XYZ-VX680-900-nm-00257"/>
        <spw:Reagent ID="Reagent:006" Description="VX680 at a 2700nM concentration from XYZ Supplier" Name="VX680-2700nM" ReagentIdentifier="R-XYZ-VX680-2700-nm-00258"/>
        ...
    </spw:Screen>

What is recorded where
----------------------



    
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    Attachment Level
                
                
                    Information Recorded
                
                
                    Description
                
            
            
                
                
            
            
                
                    Plate
                
                
            
            
                
                
                    ID
                
                
                    This is used by the system to identify the plate.
                
            
            
                
                
                    Name
                
                
                    This is chosen by the user to identify the plate.
                
            
            
                
                
                    Description
                
                
                    A free text description
                
            
            
                
                
                    Status
                
                
                    The current state of the plate in the experiment work-flow.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ExternalIdentifier
                
                
                    This is a identifier for the plate used by an external system. This may be a barcode printed on the plate by the manufacturer.
                
            
            
                
                    Reagent
                
                
            
            
                
                
                    ID
                
                
                    This is used by the system to identify the reagent
                
            
            
                
                
                    Description
                
                
                    A long description for the reagent
                
            
            
                
                
                    Name
                
                
                    A short name for the reagent
                
            
            
                
                
                    ReagentIdentifier
                
                
                    This is a reference to an external (to OME) representation of the Reagent. It serves as a foreign key into an external database.
                
            
            
                
                    Screen
                
                
            
            
                
                
                    ID
                
                
                    This is used by the system to identify the screen
                
            
            
                
                
                    Name
                
                
                    This is chosen by the user to identify the screen
                
            
            
                
                
                    ProtocolIdentifier
                
                
                    A pointer to an externally defined protocol, usually in a screening database.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ProtocolDescription
                
                
                    A description of the screen protocol; may contain very detailed information to reproduce some of that found in a screening database.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ReagentSetDescription
                
                
                    A description of the set of reagents; may contain very detailed information to reproduce some of that information found in a screening database.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ReagentSetIdentifier
                
                
                    A pointer to an externally defined set of reagents, usually in a screening database/automation database.
                
            
            
                
                
                    Type
                
                
                    A human readable identifier for the screen type; e.g. RNAi, cDNA, SiRNA, etc.
                
            
            
                
                    ScreenAcquisition
                
                
                
                    ScreenAcquisition is used to describe a single acquisition run for a screen. Since Screens are abstract, this object is used to record the set of images acquired in a single acquisition run. The Images for this run are linked to ScreenAcquisition through WellSample.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ID
                
            
            
                
                
                    EndTime
                
                
                    Time when the last image of this acquisition was collected
                
            
            
                
                
                    StartTime
                
                
                    Time when the first image of this acquisition was collected
                
            
            
                
                    Well
                
                
                
                    A Well is a component of the Well/Plate/Screen construct to describe screening applications. A Well has a number of WellSample elements that link to the Images collected in this well. The ReagentRef links any Reagents that were used in this Well. A well is part of one or more Plates. The origin for the row and column identifiers is the top left corner of the plate starting at zero.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ID
                
            
            
                
                
                    Column
                
                
                    This is the column index of the well, the origin is the top left corner of the plate with the first column of cells being column zero. i.e top left is (0,0)
                
            
            
                
                
                    ExternalDescription
                
                
                    A description of the externally defined identifier for this plate.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ExternalIdentifier
                
                
                    A pointer to an externally defined identifier for this plate.
                
            
            
                
                
                    Row
                
                
                    This is the row index of the well, the origin is the top left corner of the plate with the first row of wells being row zero. i.e top left is (0,0)
                
            
            
                
                
                    Type
                
                
                    A human readable identifier for the screening status. e.g. empty, positive control, negative control, control, experimental, etc. This string is likely to become an enumeration in future releases.
                
            
            
                
                    WellSample
                
                
                
                    WellSample is an individual image that has been captured within a Well.
                
            
            
                
                
                    ID
                
            
            
                
                
                    Index
                
                
                    This is the main link to the core Image element
                
            
            
                
                
                    PosX
                
                
                    The X position of the image within the well
                
            
            
                
                
                    PosY
                
                
                    The Y position of the image within the well
                
            
            
                
                
                    Timepoint
                
                
                    The time-point at which the image started to be collected
                


Diagram showing structure in the SPW Schema
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Within the OME data model Screen Plate and Image are top level
structures. A file can contain multiple instances of these elements.

Each Plate can contain multiple Wells and multiple ScreenRefs, i.e. a
plate can belong to multiple screens. Each Well in turn can have one (or
zero) ReagentRef, and zero or more WellSamples. Each of the well samples
defines the location of an image within the well and the time at which
the sample started to be collected. It also references the Image itself.

Each Screen contains multiple Reagents, ScreenAcquisitions, and
PlateRefs, i.e. a screen can use many plates. A ScreenAcquisition is
best viewed as a pass over some or all of the plates in a Screen -
usually associated with some time-point or step in a protocol. It is a
collection of individual WellSamples across the Plates collected between
two time points.

.. figure:: /images/formats/ScreenPlateWell/2009-09/Spw-structure.png
   :align: center
   :alt: SPW structure

Diagram showing structure in the SPW Schema (cross-linked)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The dashed arrows added to the previous diagram show the
inter-dependencies between the Screen branch and the Plate branch of the
schema, as well as the ultimate link to Image.

.. figure:: /images/formats/ScreenPlateWell/2009-09/Spw-structure-cross-linked.png
   :align: center
   :alt: SPW structure cross linked
   
Diagram showing sample file structure of the SPW Schema
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This diagram shows how a typical file would be structured and what
objects are normally contained inside each other.

.. figure:: /images/formats/ScreenPlateWell/2009-09/Spw-sample.png
   :align: center
   :alt: SPW sample
   
Diagram showing sample file structure of the SPW Schema (cross-linked)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The dashed arrows added to the previous diagram show the
inter-dependencies of the objects in the sample file structure. Each
dashed line could represent links from several objects of one type to
several objects of the second type. The links in the file are
accomplished using unique IDs on objects and then References to these
IDs from elsewhere in the file.

.. figure:: /images/formats/ScreenPlateWell/2009-09/Spw-sample-crosslinked.png
   :align: center
   :alt: SPW sample cross linked

