Tiled Images
============




Storing tiled images in an OME file.

    NOTE: This approach while still valid has been **superseded** by the
    `6D, 7D, 8D Solution <6d-7d-and-8d-storage>`_.

When you are looking at a sample that is larger then the available field
of the microscope one approach is to acquire a number of images, moving
across the sample. These individual image pieces can then be joined
together at a later date to form an image of the entire sample.

There are two structures in the model that support the joining process.

-  StageLabel - part of Image
-  StagePosition - part of Plane

The mainstay of the OME format is the 5-dimensional pixel array. In
order to maintain the integrity of this structure the Tiling process has
to be external to the Image structure. This means that you represent the
Tiled image as a collection of Image elements. It is up to the software
loading the OME file to interpret these individual Image elements as
Tiles.

Each Image element can have a StageLabel. This is a named point in the
co-ordinates of the microscope reference frame. The StageLabel has a
Name attribute, that can store a human readable description of the
point, as well as X, Y, and Z values for the co-ordinates. Each
co-ordinate is optional so an (X,Y) position or (X,Z) position can be
recorded if required. This is probably best thought of as the target
location for the individual tile.

During the acquisition process the field is moved to capture each set of
pixels making up a plane of an image of the tiled image. The exact
location of the plane is recorded in the StagePosition. This is similar
to the StageLabel but has no name only co-ordinates. The values in
StagePosition should correspond to the values in StageLabel but
depending on the instrument and capture method there may be small
discrepancies.

    Some systems in the past have used the Time value as a place to
    store the tile number of an image. This not the correct approach in
    the OME model.

.. figure:: http://git.openmicroscopy.org/src/master/components/specification/Documentation/Graphics/TiledImages/Sample2x2Images.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Tile Samples Image

   Tile Samples Image
A sample file showing the structure is:

::

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <OME xmlns="http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/OME/2008-02"
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/OME/2008-02 ome.xsd">
        <!-- This is a dummy file - it has no real data -->
        <!-- File to represent a tiled image aligned in a 2 by 2 grid -->
        <!-- as a collection of 4 images a, b, c, and d.  -->
        <!-- 0 | 1 | 2 | -->
        <!-- - | - | - | -->
        <!-- 1 | a | b | -->
        <!-- 2 | c | d | -->
        <!-- - | - | - | -->
        <!-- First image - this will be the tile at 1,1 on the grid -->
        <Image ID="Image:a" Name="2x2 Image" DefaultPixels="Pixels:a">
            <CreationDate>2008-03-01T18:13:51.0Z</CreationDate>
            <LogicalChannel ID="LogicalChannel:a">
                <ChannelComponent Pixels="Pixels:a" Index="1"/>
            </LogicalChannel>    
            <StageLabel Name="(1,1) of 2x2" X="1.00" Y="1.00"/> 
            <!-- X and Y (and Z if present) are the target location -->
            <Pixels ID="Pixels:a" DimensionOrder="XYZCT" PixelType="uint8" BigEndian="true"
                    SizeX="128" SizeY="128" SizeZ="8" SizeC="1" SizeT="3">
                <BinData xmlns="http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/BinaryFile/2008-02" 
                         Length="10">
                    <!-- ... -->
                </BinData>
                <Plane TheZ="1" TheT="1" TheC="1">
                    <PlaneTiming DeltaT="0.01" ExposureTime="0.004"/>
                    <StagePosition PositionX="1.03" PositionY="0.98" PositionZ="1.02"/>
                    <!-- X, Y and Z are the actual location when the plane was acquired-->
                </Plane>
                <Plane TheZ="2" TheT="1" TheC="1">
                    <PlaneTiming DeltaT="0.02" ExposureTime="0.004"/>
                    <StagePosition PositionX="1.03" PositionY="0.98" PositionZ="1.23"/>
                </Plane>
                <!-- ... and so on for the other Z sections -->
                <!-- ... and then for the other Time points -->
            </Pixels>
        </Image>

        <!-- Second image - this will be the tile at 1,2 on the grid -->
        <Image ID="Image:b" Name="2x2 Image" DefaultPixels="Pixels:b">
            <CreationDate>2008-03-01T18:13:51.0Z</CreationDate>
            <LogicalChannel ID="LogicalChannel:b">
                <ChannelComponent Pixels="Pixels:b" Index="1"/>
            </LogicalChannel>    
            <StageLabel Name="(1,2) of 2x2" X="1.00" Y="2.00"/> 
            <!-- X and Y (and Z if present) are the target location -->
            <Pixels ID="Pixels:b" DimensionOrder="XYZCT" PixelType="uint8" BigEndian="true"
                    SizeX="128" SizeY="128" SizeZ="8" SizeC="1" SizeT="3">
                <BinData xmlns="http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/BinaryFile/2008-02"
                         Length="10">
                    <!-- ... -->
                </BinData>
                <Plane TheZ="1" TheT="1" TheC="1">
                    <PlaneTiming DeltaT="0.31" ExposureTime="0.004"/>
                    <StagePosition PositionX="1.02" PositionY="2.01" PositionZ="1.01"/>
                    <!-- X, Y and Z are the actual location when the plane was acquired-->
                </Plane>
                <Plane TheZ="2" TheT="1" TheC="1">
                    <PlaneTiming DeltaT="0.32" ExposureTime="0.004"/>
                    <StagePosition PositionX="1.02" PositionY="2.01" PositionZ="1.24"/>
                </Plane>
                <!-- ... and so on for the other Z sections -->
                <!-- ... and then for the other Time points -->
            </Pixels>
        </Image>

        <!-- Third image - this will be the tile at 2,1 on the grid -->
        <!-- ... -->

        <!-- Fourth image - this will be the tile at 2,2 on the grid -->
        <!-- ... -->
    </OME>

An alternative valid form would have ``TiffData`` blocks instead of the
``BinData`` blocks. This would be used in the header of an OME-TIFF
file.

    *The above sample is the 2008-02 schema and uses a separate
    StagePosition element. In more recent releases these values are
    stored directly on plane e.g.*

::

    <Plane TheZ="1" TheT="1" TheC="1" PositionX="1.03" PositionY="50.05" PositionZ="1.02"/>

