Deprecated Page

The feedback is in relation to the upcoming work with the OMERO web site
and documentation work. See User Story `#3592 </ome/ticket/3592>`_

    **Moved into a ticket - content can be deleted**

The following is a conversation with a scientist about how the web site
might benefit in the layout and the navigation of the site. The key
requirement highlighted was to be able to have at least two key pathways
of navigation on the web site front page. As a scientist they wish to be
able to access and download the software and then if necessary find any
software documentation with minimal ease. Any cross over of information
between the scientists and information for the external
developers/expert users make the process for finding information more
complex than necessary. This highlights the need to retain a scientist’s
attention if the scientists is getting lost or confused then they may
leave the web site.

(Some of this point relates to preserving the 3 clicks rule to get to
important information. A prototype mock up navigation map of the web
site might help demonstrate this.)

The specific example of the Mozilla web site
(` http://www.mozilla.org/ <http://www.mozilla.org/>`_) was discussed in
how it both serves a very large user community and large development
community. And has two distinct pathways to accommodate for this. The
users are directed to the recent downloads for the browser and the wide
set of extension that the web browser now offers. The developers are
accommodated for in the Mozilla community pages.

(See the following link for initial set of possible web site navigation
ideas the work requires further investigation for a wider range of
ideas.
` http://www.webdesignerwall.com/trends/30-examples-of-attractive-nav/ <http://www.webdesignerwall.com/trends/30-examples-of-attractive-nav/>`_
)

The Mozilla Firefox browser specifically was also discussed to be a good
example for informing users of the browser updates. There was an
identification of the need to provide further details of the OMERO
updates between the major releases to the local users (For the local
users can we use the nitpick email to also to sent out to them?) This
was raised as problem as between major releases the scientists are
content with the stability of the software and so the perception of the
updates can be viewed as a disruption to this. Any additional
information that may help support the information behind incremental
releases update, so that the users are aware of the progression of the
software and OMERO team.

It was also mentioned that a scientist had not received the upgrade
emails for OMERO is there a way I may add any outstanding users that I
speak to the update list?
